chore: Final preparations for release 2.0.0 (#396)
scikit-hep/pylhe: paper/paper.md

In contrast to LHE files, HepMC stores fewer details about the particles, but also contains many more particles per event.
Both files are plain text-based formats, making them human-readable but potentially large.
Consequently, compression using gzip is common practice for both formats.

> Since `pylhe` version 2.0.0, the library also supports the HDF5-based LHEH5 format [@hdf5;@Hoche:2019flt;@Bothmann:2023ozs], improving read/write performance and further reducing file sizes for event storage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since `pylhe` version 2.0.0, the library also supports the HDF5-based [@hdf5] LHEH5 format [@Hoche:2019flt;@Bothmann:2023ozs], improving read/write performance and further reducing file sizes for event storage.
```

The LHE format stores information within `<init>` and multiple `<event>` blocks consisting of whitespace-separated values designed historically for straightforward parsing in Fortran.
Further details can be found in the original definition of the Les Houches Event file standard [@Alwall:2006yp].
Following the original publication there were two extensions to the LHE format, version 2.0 in 2009 [@Butterworth:2010ym] and version 3.0 in 2013 [@Andersen:2014efa].
`pylhe` completely implements the widely adopted version 3.0, that is the addition of `<scales>`, `<generator>`, and multiple weights via `<initrwgt>`, `<rwgt>`, `<weight>`, `<weights>`, `<wgt>`, and `<weightgroup>` on top of the version 1.0.

> Features that were introduced in version 2.0 but removed in version 3.0 again, such as `<pdfinfo>` or `<clustering>` are not supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Features that were introduced in version 2.0 but removed in version 3.0, such as `<pdfinfo>` or `<clustering>`, are not supported.
```

When `pylhe` was first developed, there were no other Python libraries available for reading and writing LHE files.
Nowadays, there are a few other smaller Python libraries with less adoption than `pylhe`, which provide only read functionality and are no longer actively maintained, such as `lhereader` [@lhereader1;@lhereader2].
For completeness, it should be mentioned that several LHE libraries exist in other programming languages, such as Go (`go-hep` [@Binet2017]), Rust (`lhe` [@lhe-rs], `lhef` [@lhef;@lhef-rs], `event_file_reader` [@event_file_reader]), Julia (`LHEF.jl` [@LHEF_jl]) and Haskell (`lhe.hs` [@lhehs]).

> These provide varying degrees of completeness with none supporting LHEH5 yet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These provide varying degrees of completeness, but none support the LHEH5 format yet.
```

# Software design

`pylhe` allows for easy reading and writing of `.lhe` and `.lhe.gz` files in Python, enabling seamless integration into modern data analysis workflows in high-energy physics.
The pythonic event yielding approach allows for memory-efficient processing of arbitrarily large LHE files by streaming events one at a time rather than loading all of them at once into memory.
Internally, `pylhe` uses `xml.etree.ElementTree` to parse the XML structure, since using the `lxml` library did not provide a significant speed up.

> For LHEH5 files the library uses `h5py` [@collette2013pythonhdf5] to read and write the HDF5 format, via the same pythonic data structures making it easy to transparently convert between XML and HDF5 formats.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For LHEH5 files the library uses `h5py` [@collette2013pythonhdf5] to read and write the HDF5 format, via the same pythonic data structures, making it easy to convert between the standard XML and newer HDF5 formats.
```
